# Host Context / Ontologies for Experiments

## 1 Mixtures via Components

Any Component can be interpreted as specifying a mixture of the material entity (SBO:0000240) Features that it includes. The amount of each such instance included in the mixture SHOULD be specified by attaching a om:Measure with a type set to the appropriate SBO term. The SBO terms that are RECOMMENDED as appropriate are members of the Systems Description Parameter (SBO:0000545) branch of SBO. Examples include: 

 - SBO:0000540: fraction of an entity pool (e.g.,1/3 CHO cells, 2/3 HEKcells)
 - SBO:0000472: molar concentration of an entity (e.g.,1mM arabinose)
 - SBO:0000361: amount of an entity pool (e.g.,200 uL M9 media)
 
 Mixtures MAY be defined recursively, as mixtures of mixtures of mixtures, etc.
 
 ## 2 Media, Inducers, and Other Reagents
 
 Each reagent, whether “atomic” (e.g., rainbow bead control) or mixture (e.g., M9 media), SHOULD be represented as a Component and/or as a Feature of a Component in which the reagent is used. For example, a custom media mixture might be defined as a Component and used as a SubComponent, while a commercially supplied reagent might be used as an ExternallyDefined feature linking to its PubChem identifiers.
 
 The roles of reagents may vary in context: for example, arabinose may serve as an inducer or as a media carbon source. As such, contextual role SHOULD be indicated by an NCI Thesaurus (NCIT) term in a role property of the Feature. Examples include:
 
  - NCIT:C64356: PositiveControl
  - NCIT:C48694: Cell
  - NCIT:C85504: Media
  - NCIT:C14419: Strain
  - NCIT:C120268: Inducer

For more information on representing cells, strains, plasmids, and genomes, see BP0010.

## 3 Samples

A complete specification of a sample SHOULD be a Component that includes at least:

 - A Feature instantiating each strain in the sample
 - A Feature for the media or buffer
 - A Feature for each additional reagent added to the media(e.g.,inducers,antibiotics)
 - om:Measures on each of these specifying the amount in the sample
 - om:Measures on the Component for each environmental parameter (e.g.,temperature,pH,culturingtime)
 
 ## 4 Other Experimental Parameters
 
 In order to deal with parameters associated with the context in general but not specific instances, e.g., temperature, pH, total sample volume, the hasMeasure property of Identified can be used. The hasMeasure of a Component provides context-free information (e.g., the pH of M9 media, the GC-content of a GFP coding sequence), while the hasMeasure of a material entity (SBO:0000240) Feature provides a measurement in context (e.g., the dosage of arabinose in a sample).
 
 Values of these parameters SHOULD be specified by attaching a om:Measure with a type set to the appropriate SBO term. The SBO terms that are RECOMMENDED as appropriate are members of the Systems Description Parameter (SBO:0000545) branch of SBO. Examples include:
 
  - SBO:0000147: thermodynamic temperature (e.g.,culturing at 27 C)
  - SBO:0000332: half-life of an exponential decay(e.g.,decay rate of a gRNA)
  - SBO:0000304: pH(e.g.,pH of M9 media)
